The text today is taken from the Watchtower 2016 January and the theme be compel by God's indescribable free gift.
Well, this memorial season really does move us to contemplate what Jehovah has done for us and we should be compel.
The insight volume has a very interesting article on this matter of forgiveness.
And one of the statements it mentions that the Hebrew verb Salah for forgive is used only with regard to Jehovah's pardoning a sinner.
It's never used in connection with a human for giving a human.
So the extent of and reasons for Jehovah's forgiveness really are unmatchable.
So what should we be compel to do?
Well, let's reflect on the illustration that Jesus gave in Matthew chapter 18.
And if you turn there, you'll recall that in verse 21, Peter had asked Lord,
how many times am I to forgive my brother if he sins against me up to seven times?
Now, what was wrong with that question?
Well, Peter had been influenced by a hard, hearted spirit that was prevalent in those days and in some instances even today.
But what do we mean?
Well, Peter measured forgiveness.
And that was common among the Pharisees.
Jesus went on to say what in verse 22.
We know it very well. I say to you, not up to seven times, but up to 77 times.
And then in connection with divine forgiveness, Jesus responds in a way that helps us to see the contrast in the human understanding of forgiveness and God.
Notice what he says in verse 23.
That is why the kingdom of the heavens may be likened to a king who wanted to settle accounts with his slaves.
Now notice the king wanted to settle accounts.
It wasn't the slaves.
The slaves had built up a debt with the king and just as called for the king to handle matters, balance the books as it were.
But then he found one slave who owed him 10,000 talents, $40 million.
That's a lot of money.
Jehovah, if we think about that illustration, is telling us something.
He has given those that is his slaves, us a lot of leeway.
He has forgiven us thousands of times.
So often that we are not aware really of the many sins we commit against Jehovah.
Now going back to the illustration of verse 26, this slave begs because he can't afford to pay off.
And he says to the master, be patient with me and I'll pay everything I owe you. Well, how in the world could he do that?
It was a slave. How could he pay back for me? And the master knew there's no way he could pay this back.
When I'm putting the illustration in today's terms, the average yearly wage for the United States, I Googleize this.
In 2014 was almost $52,000. That's everybody just averaging out.
There are a lot of people who don't make that much and many who make more than that. But the average was $52,000.
Now if the 10,000 talents equal $40 million, it would take a man 770 years to pay off that debt if he gave everything that he made to pay off the debt.
So the master knew this slave, he can't pay me.
So verse 27 says, move with pity at this. The master of the slave let him off and canceled his debt.
What a relief that would be. But the slave should have recognized something. He could never be in the same position as the master.
He didn't have the resources.
Nor could anyone possibly owe him what he owed the master.
Now if he had captured the spirit of forgiveness shown to him, there would hardly be any debt owed to him that he couldn't tolerate or even forget it.
But in verse 28, look at his attitude. That slave went out and found one of his fellow slaves, same plain as him,
who owed him $100 in the area, $70. Now notice he went out and found that slave.
So he was rather than looking to overlook the debts of those who were indebted to him, he was looking for those who owed him.
Now we're going to read verses 29, 30, 32, 33, 35 notice.
So his fellow slave fell down and began to beg him saying, be patient with me and I'll pay you back.
However, he was not willing. Now let's stop there.
Is it possible that this slave that owed him could pay him back? Yes, it possible he could work it out within his resources, $70.
But then how was the reaction? The account says he went and had him thrown into prison until he could pay back what he owed.
Boy, how petty.
Verse 32, then the master summoned him and said to him, wicked slave, I cancel all that debt for you.
When you pleaded with me, that debt that you could never have paid off, should you not also have shown mercy to your fellow slave?
That slave who possibly could have paid it off, the same as I showed you mercy.
And then the clincher, verse 35, Jesus' point, my heavenly father will also deal with you.
That's me and that's you. In the same way, if each of you does not forgive your brother, not by root, not by formula, but from our heart.
Now the king, as we said, forgave the debt of $40 million. That slave was unwilling to forgive his fellow slave for amount of $70.
Jehovah is a big forgiver. And we thank him for that. Last evening, he helped us to see how big.
Really grasping the death of our indebtedness to Jehovah and the death of his forgiveness should compel us to constantly work at having a forgiving spirit.
And inside volume says that in the Bible, the Hebrew word nasa, made to note pardon or forgiveness extended by God or by humans.
But as we stated originally, salah is used extensively for God's forgiveness, the act by which a sinner is restored to divine favor.
Now remember, our forgiveness can't begin to match Jehovah's.
So there's nothing that any human can do to us that matches what we, born in sin, alienated from God and climbed to do wrong, have done to offend Jehovah.
And yet, as we discussed yesterday last evening and were reminded of, God recommends his own love to us. And that while we were yet sinners, he had his son die for us.
I'd like to quote to you a watchtower of October 15, 1999, page 13, October 15, 1999. The article is forgive from your heart. It says this.
You should see in God's willingness to forgive a pattern as to how you ought to treat other humans. Paul focused on this writing, become kind to one another, tenderly compassionate, freely forgiving.
Not like an accountant, keeping track, but freely forgiving one another, just as God also by Christ freely forgave you.
Then the watchtower says this. Do you see the link? Jehovah God forgave you. It's me.
So Paul forcefully reasons you need to imitate God and be tenderly compassionate, freely forgiving of others.
And then the watchtower asks some penetrating questions. Is it ask yourself, am I really doing that?
If it is not in my nature, am I working in that direction, really striving to imitate God and being forgiving.
Now we might say, well, I'm forgiving. I forgive a lot of people. Proof, proverb 179.
Whoever forgives a transgression seeks love, but the one who keeps harping on a matter separates close friends.
If we keep talking about what somebody's done to us, we haven't forgiven in the heart. Jehovah doesn't do that.
So forgiving others for personal offenses, regardless of the number of times involved, is a Christian requirement.
God's forgiveness is not extended toward those who refuse to forgive. Remember what Jesus said. Forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors.
And what a beautiful God we have. His action and that of his son compels us to be freely forgiving.